---
title: "November 3, 2019"
date: 2019-11-03T23:26:50-05:00
draft: false
---

## Initial Thoughts

Working from memory as I type this on my phone over dinner.

Using vim on Termux for Android. I haven't dug too deeply into its capabilities, but it seems to be a full-featured terminal supporting bash and zsh - complete with the usual linux tools like top, ps, chmod, etc. I've managed to install git and clang, so definitely not a toy.

In my head, I'm already working on utility scripts I can write in order to ameliorate some of the problems with working on my phone - many of them git-related. After all, if I can get git working smoothly, I can do a lot of the heavy lifting on my PC and then push the result to my phone for the bits that need to be done locally on Android. (At what point in this journal did I switch from Termux to editing in Chrome on the Github site? I'll never tell.)

Honestly, I was never as excited about writing apps for Android as I am about the possibility of writing command-line utilities.

## Weekend Goals

My goal for this weekend was to finish up my coursework on Google Cloud Functions and try to get a GCF talking to a database.

I finished the coursework on Google Cloud Functions and, after reading about what it takes to talk to a Google Cloud Datastore from a GCF, came to the conclusion that I would be better off doing my next round of experimenting in a more familiar environoment - in this case, writing Azure functions in .net core 3.0.

## Completed work (includes Nov 10 and bits of Nov 9)

### Election Gallery Migration

Most of Friday night and Saturday were spent solving a problem with the Gallery project. When I wrote the project ~10 years ago, I used a naive migration strategy of wiping out all of the election results every time I migrated and rewriting them to match the file system. This worked all right with a local database and ~2,000 election results, but with the database residing in the cloud and the election results ~50,000, this finally started to cause timeouts. I rewrote the code to only write missing entries and new elections. The initial test dropped from 50,000+ database writes to 43.

I did note that, out of the box, LINQ's IEnumerable.Any<T> doesn't do any optimization (nor should it,) but it did mean that comparing two lists of 50,000 items for up to six matching properties required ~3-10 billion string equality comparisons and takes about a minute. I will eventually have to reoptimize if the project grows much larger.

### Independent Study
  
As part of my primary goal, I finished the first course about Google Cloud Functions on PluralSite. For immediate gratification, I started a course on vim. Casual listening was about Vagrant, Consul, and an executive-level summary of Microservices. Briefly played with Python web-scraping using BeautifulSoup (using VSCode devcontainers.)

## Questions

* What's the best way to register an SSH key from Termux to github?
* Given two very long lists of objects, what's the most efficient way to find an omnidirectional set of missing elements? Are there any gotchas to sorting both lists, then composing a list of what-doesn't-come-next?

## References

* [Termux Wiki: Differences from Linux](https://wiki.termux.com/wiki/Differences_from_Linux)
* [PRoot](https://proot-me.github.io/)
* [Pluralsight Course: Google Cloud Functions, Getting Started](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/google-cloud-functions-getting-started/table-of-contents)
* [Pluralsight Course: Smash Into Vim](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/smash-into-vim/table-of-contents)

